Monitoring: replace manifests with helm chart and update documentation (#728)
netgroup-polito/CrownLabs: infrastructure/monitoring/kube-prometheus-stack/README.md

Prometheus's main features are:
- a multi-dimensional data model with time series data identified by metric name and key/value pairs
- PromQL, a flexible query language to leverage this dimensionality
- no reliance on distributed storage; single server nodes are autonomous
- time series collection happens via a pull model over HTTP
- pushing time series is supported via an intermediary gateway
- targets are discovered via service discovery or static configuration
- multiple modes of graphing and dashboarding support

## Prerequisites
Helm must be installed to deploy the chart. Please follow the [Helm installing guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) before getting started.

After Helm is ready, add the Prometheus Community repo as follow:

```bash
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```
To see the Prometheus Community charts, you can run:

```bash
helm search repo prometheus-community
```

## Installation
To install the chart with the release name `kube-prometheus-stack` and apply the configuration specified by the `kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml` file, it is possible to proceed as follows:

```bash

> helm upgrade --install kube-prometheus-stack prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack -f kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install kube-prometheus-stack prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack \
     --namespace=monitoring --values=kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml
```

```

*NOTE: the release name must be `kube-prometheus-stack` because [name overrides cause webhook calls to fail](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/issues/257).*

### Persistent storage

Running cluster monitoring with persistent storage means that your metrics are stored to a Persistent Volume and can survive a pod being restarted or recreated. This is ideal if you require your metrics or alerting data to be guarded from data loss. For production environments, it is highly recommended to configure persistent storage.

We need to modify the relative fields for Grafana and Prometheus, to have persistent storage:

- [Grafana persistence](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L872)
  ```yaml
  persistence:
    type: pvc
    enabled: true
    storageClassName: rook-cephfs-primary
    accessModes:
      - ReadWriteMany
    size: 10Gi

>     # annotations: {}
>     finalizers:
>       - kubernetes.io/pvc-protection
>     # selectorLabels: {}
>     # subPath: ""
>     # existingClaim:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  ```

- [Prometheus retention](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L2417).

  ```yaml
  ## How long to retain metrics
  ##
  retention: 15d
  ## Maximum size of metrics
  ##

>   retentionSize: 45GB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  retentionSize: 90GB
```

  ```

- [Prometheus storage persistence](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L2517)

  ```yaml
  storageSpec:
  ## Using PersistentVolumeClaim
  ##
    volumeClaimTemplate:
      spec:
        storageClassName: rook-ceph-block
        accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]
        resources:
          requests:

>             storage: 50Gi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            storage: 100Gi
```

Had to increase this size since I started receiving complaining alerts

Edit the ingress in the [kube-prometheus-stack file values](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml) and adapt it to your configuration. In particular, it is necessary to instert the `annotations`, specify the `hosts`, and configure the `tls`. This needs to be done for [alertmanager ingress](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L268) and [prometheus ingress](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L2067)

#### Grafana configuration

Edit the [grafana.ini config](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L783) and adapt it to your configuration (each line corresponds to an environment variable). In particular, it is necessary to adapt the different URIs and specify the Client ID and Secrets generated in Keycloak. The meaning of the different fields is specified by the embedded comments. More information can be found in the [official documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/generic-oauth/).

#### Limit access to a subset of Keycloak users

The access to Alertmanager and Prometheus is limited to users belonging to the `monitoring` group. Hence, it is possible to grant access to the users by simply adding them to the `monitoring` group.

> **Warning:** At the time of writing, in Grafana it seems not possible to restrict login by role/group when using the `generic_oauth` feature. Hence, all valid users of the Keycloak realm would be able to access Grafana. As a temporary workaround, the [grafana.ini](./kube-prometheus-stack-values.yaml#L782) disables the access to users not already present within the Grafana database. As soon as this [PR](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/22383) is merged and the new version of Grafana released, it should be possible to limit the access to only a subset of Keycloak users directly from grafana, without needing to create duplicated accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning:** At the time of writing, in Grafana it seems not possible to restrict login by role/group when using the `generic_oauth` feature. Hence, all valid users of the Keycloak realm will be able to access Grafana.
```

The following is deleted, since it does no longer correspond to our configuration.
